# NBA-Winner-Prediction-
NBA Winner Prediction with Matlab

#Motivation
There is a vast number of different features and metrics that can be extracted form a basketball game, which in turn can be used to compile an overview that can give us insight about the outcome of the said game. Our goal is to predict the outcome of a National Basketball Association (NBA) game using box score statistics and subsequently, the general layout of the play-off brackets. We will use various machine learning techniques to predict game scores and try to pinpoint important features that has the most influence on the outcome. We want to figure out which attributes or stats of a team will be critical, to have a accurate enough projection of the final result.
#Overview
National Basketball Association (NBA) is the men's professional basketball league in North America. But, it is not limited to a single country, and has millions of fans all around the world, proved by the fact that nearly 44.807.000 people watched the 2016 finals across the world. The league also is backed by a giant industry and has an astronomical amount of money that revolves around it, so not surprisingly, there has been a lot of research trying to forecast winning teams, analyze teams performance and to help coaches to figure out where to focus on next.
Within each conference, the eight teams with the most wins qualify for the playoffs. Through the history of NBA, a lot of data has been gathered and it gets more and more detailed every year. However, even with this kind of vast and rich data available, it is not easy to predict a games outcome. It is nearly impossible to tackle all this data and come out with a reasonable interpretation manually, so, to deal that complexity and to achieve better results, various machine learning methods can and have been implemented.
The objective is to come up with a prediction that is better than a naive classifier that takes the team that won the majority of games between the two teams that are playing against each other at every step of the bracket. Using machine learning, we will try to predict the whole bracket, to the winner of the season. We will try to come up with reasonable features, and also assess the impact of these features along the way, as we try different algorithms. We expect a support vector machine, on top of PCA, will give adequate results. Secondly, we will try neural networks, and compare the results, and observe if it ends up overfitting the data, caused by the complexity of the approach.
